***
#Installing Puppet on the local machine
In Ubuntu, applying rules locally,
-	Install the Puppet master package using 
	-	sudo apt install puppet-master

-	Begin by creating a simple file to store the rules that will we like to apply. It is called manifests in Puppet Lingo with .pp 
extention. In the sample, created tools.pp and create a package resource htop which is simlar to top and to make sure it is 
present. See the script below
	*package { 'htop':
	  ensure => present,
	}*

-	Before applying the rules let's verify if the isn't present yet,
  by typing the command **htop**

-	To fix this if not present yet, we'll use the command
	-	sudo puppet apply -v tools.pp
   The above command tells use we want to get verbose output

- Check if the rules worked by typing 'htop'. You should
  see the performance behaviour. HTOP is a tool used to get information
  about the performance of a computer.
- To exit use the 'q' command

In managing resource relationship, with a sample manifest ntp.pp, 
see the scripts below
class ntp {
  package { 'ntp':
    ensure => latest,
  } 
  file { '/etc/ntp.conf':
    source => '/home/user/ntp.conf',
    replace => true,
    require => Package['ntp'],
    notify  => Service['ntp'],
  }
  service { 'ntp':
    enable  => true,
    ensure  => running,
    require => File['/etc/ntp.conf'],
  }
}
include ntp

This file contains resources related to the NTP configuration: the ntp package, the ntp configuration file, and ntp service.

The relationships between these resources are also included in the code. In Puppet, code that defines a resource begins with a lowercase letter, whereas code that defines a relationship begins with a capital letter. The ntp configuration file requires the ntp package, which is indicated with the code require => Package['ntp']. The ntp service requires the ntp configuration file, which is indicated with the code require => File['/etc/ntp.conf']. Additionally, the ntp configuration file resource notifies the ntp service when it is present, which is indicated by the code notify  => Service['ntp']. 

***
#Practice Quiz: Deploying Puppet Locally
***
1. Puppet evaluates all functions, conditionals, and variables for each individual system, and generates a list of rules for that specific system. What are these individual lists of rules called?  
*Ans => Catalogs*

2.  After we install new modules that were made and shared by others, which folder in the module's directory will contain the new functions and facts? 
*Ans => lib*

3. What file extension do manifest files use?
*Ans => .pp*

4. What is contained in the metadata.json file of a Puppet module?
*Ans => Additional data about the module*

5. What does Puppet syntax dictate we do when referring to another resource attribute?
*Ans => Capitalize the attribute*

***