<h1> Basic Python syntax</h1>
<p>
	Python syntax includes words that represent objects and commands, as well as punctuation that gives the words structure, hierarchy, and context. Together, the words and punctuation communicate ideas and processes; this is known as semantics. Semantics is the meaning conveyed by the syntax. The best way to learn syntax and semantics is through exposure. Practice coding and become familiar and comfortable with reading other people’s code. In addition, there are some general conventions that practitioners use to help maintain stylistic uniformity within the language. 
</p>

**Variables:** Represent data stored as strings, tuples, dictionaries, lists, and objects (note: future readings explain these categories)

**Comment:** codes commmented are not executed hence it enables a programer in documenting codes. It can be a single line comment with *#* symbol or double line comment with with *double or single quotes*. 

**Keywords:** Special words that are reserved for specific purposes and that can only be used for those purposes. These include **in, not or, for, while and return**

**Operators:** These are symbols that perform operations on objects and values. Common operators are **+, -, *, /, **, %, ==, >, <, and //**

**Expressions:** These are combination of numbers, symbols, and variables to compute and return a result upon evaluation

**Implicit conversion:** This conversion is done when python interpreter automatically converts one data type to another

**Explicit conversion:** - This conversion is done when a code is written to manually convert one data type to another using a data type conversion function:
- str() - converts a value (often numeric) to a string data type
- int() - converts a value (usually a float) to an integer data type
- float() - converts a value (usually an integer) to a float data type



[**Functions:**](./3.functions.py) This is a group of related statements to perform a task and return a value. Below is a sample example of a function. 
	def to_celsius(x):
   		'''Convert Fahrenheit to Celsius'''
   		return (x-32) * 5/9

	to_celsius(75)
We've already considered built in functions like print(). Others include str(), sorted, min(), max(), etc


[**Comparison Operators with Equations**](./4.conditions.py)
The following examples demonstrate how to use comparison operators with the data types *int* (integers, whole numbers) and *float* (number with a decimal point or fractional value). Comparison operators return Boolean results. Boolean is a data type that can hold only one of two values: True or False.  
The comparison operators include: 
- equality (==)
- not equal to (!= ) 
- greater than (>)
- less than (>)
- greater than or equal to (>=)
- (less than or equal to (<=)

[**Logical operators**](./4.conditions.py)
Logical operators are used to combine comparison expressions and also return Boolean results (True or False).

- **And Comparism operator -** Comparison1 and comparison2 returns a True result if both comparison1 and comparison2 are true. 

- **OR Comparism operator -** Comparism1 and comparism2 returns true if either of the comparism is true. If neither comparison is true, return False.

- **Not operator -** This returns the inverse Boolean value of the comparison. It returns a True result if comparison1 is false. If comparison1 is true, then returns False.


 
[**Object Oriented Programing**](./5.object_oriented_programing.py)
**What Is a Method?**
In Python, methods are behaviors associated with object parameters that modify the state of that object. They are essentially functions that belong to a specific instance of a class. This means that calling a method on a list, for example, only modifies that instance of the list, and not all lists globally. Methods in Python fall into several categories: 
- Instance methods
- Class methods
- Static methods

<ins> **Instance methods** </ins>
Instance methods are the most common type of methods in Python. You define instance methods within a class by creating functions inside the class definition. When you instantiate instances of a class, those individual instances can have their methods called so the program can control and modify those instances directly. Instance methods can take a parameter called self, which represents the instance the method is being executed on, that allows you to access attributes of the instance using dot notation, like self.name, which will access the name attribute of that specific instance of the class object. When you have variables that contain different values for different instances, these are called instance variables.

<ins> **Class methods** </ins>
Class methods, on the other hand, are called for the class itself instead of an instance. They are marked with a @classmethod decorator and take a cls parameter that points to the class and not any specific instance when the method is called. One common use-case for class methods is to create and modify data structures that contain records for all instances of a class. Usually, programmers make a list inside the class definition, and methods to add instances of the class to that list in order to keep track of that class. 

<ins> **Static methods** </ins>
Lastly, static methods, marked with a @staticmethod decorator, do not take a self or a cls parameter. Static methods behave like plain functions, except that you can call them directly from the class. It is important to note that you do not have to actually instantiate the class, the methods just reside in there. This is because class definitions are themselves an object (i.e., an instance of abstract base class), which reduces overhead and allows functions to be encapsulated in an easy-to-use encapsulation. Programmers use static methods when the method does not need to access any instance or class-specific data.

<ins> **Choosing a method type** </ins>
The type of method you choose to use—instance, class, or static—depends on what data the method needs to access. Think of these methods as different tools in your toolbox, each with a different use-case depending on the data you need to work with. 
*Instance methods* are for individual object data, *Class methods* for shared data, and *Static methods* for related tasks that don't need to access or modify any object or class data.



