***
<h2>Managing Projects</h2>

***
<h3>Integrating git and Git Project</h3>
Git is a disconnected client/server application. This means that repositories are kept on a server and copied to your local machine. Some Git operations, like git push or git pull, will synchronize your copy with the remote repository.

While some organizations run their own private Git servers, most rely on a hosted solution. By far, the most popular is GitHub, but GitLab and Bitbucket are also in use. The Git command line can work with any of these.

**Integrating Git and GitHub**
You can use either HTTPS or SSH with the command-line Git client to interact with GitHub. If you are pushing a commit, or working with a private repository, you will need to authenticate. Authentication methods differ depending on whether you’re using HTTPS or SSH.
****
<h4>HTTPS authentication</h4>

**Command-line with HTTPS**
Install the Git CLI according to your operating system. When you push to a GitHub repository over HTTPS, or clone a private repository, Git will prompt you for your GitHub username and password.

***
**In summary**, integrating Git and GitHub is necessary for storing, sharing, and publishing your code. Git is responsible for everything GitHub-related that happens locally on your computer. GitHub is a cloud-based service that can store, share, and publish your code. Git and GitHub need to be able to communicate with each other. 

***
<h3>Practice Quiz on managing Collaboration</h3>

***
1. How do we reference issues in our commits with automatic links?
*Ans => By using one of the keywords followed by a hashtag and the issue number.*

2. What is an artifact in terms of continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines?
*Ans => 
Any file generated as part of the CI/CD pipeline.*

3. Which of the following statements are good advice for project maintainers? (Check all that apply)
*Ans => 
Reply promptly to pull-requests.
Understand any changes you accept.
Use an issue tracker.*

4. Which statement best represents what a Continuous Integration system will do?
*Ans => Run tests automatically*

5. Which statement best represents what a Continuous Delivery (CD) system will do?
*Ans => Update with incremental rollouts*

***