***
<h1>Docker</h1>

***
**What are containers?**
Containers are applications that are packaged together with their configuration and dependencies. 

Docker is an easy way to package and run applications in containers. Some would consider it the most popular containerized technology. A container is a lightweight, portable, and isolated environment that facilitates the testing and deployment of new software. Within the container, the application is isolated from all other processes on the host machine. In the programming world, there is a saying that goes, “Well, it works on my machine,” meaning that a developer wrote some code that works perfectly on their local machine but does not work on others’ machines. Docker helps solve this common and annoying problem by providing a consistent runtime across different environments.

**Parts of Docker** 
The Docker ecosystem consists of the following parts:
- Docker daemon. This manages running containers on a host machine called the Docker Host.
- Docker CLI (command-line interface). This command-line tool interacts with Docker Daemon. 

- Docker Desktop. This graphical user interface (GUI) tool interacts with the daemon.

- Docker Hub. This is the central repository for downloading containers.

Docker uses a client-server architecture. Docker supports running the client tools and daemon on different machines. This is an advantage of Docker as it allows you to manage containers on a remote server as easily as if they’re on your own workstation. 


**Docker images**
Docker images are the building blocks of Docker containers. They are lightweight, immutable, and composed of multiple layers. A Docker image contains the application code, data files, configuration files, libraries, and other dependencies needed to run an application.


**Docker images and image layers**
Think of a Docker image as a template from which Docker containers are created and executed. Each Docker image is composed of multiple layers—adding or removing files from the previous layer. Each layer represents a specific set of changes made to the image and is composed based on the instructions in a Dockerfile. The instructions in a Dockerfile define how the image should be built.

**Note:** It’s not uncommon for an image to be composed of a dozen or more layers.

The purpose of having multiple layers is to keep the final images as small as possible—you do this by reusing layers in multiple images—and to speed up the process of building containers, as Docker has to rebuild only the layers that have changed.

**How to build a Docker image**
The key to packaging your own application as a Docker image is to have a Dockerfile. The Dockerfile acts as your source of truth or instruction manual: It specifies how Docker should build the image and contains a series of commands to build the image. Each command builds a new layer that becomes part of the final image. A common process is to start with a base image such as Debian Linux or Python 3.10, install the libraries your application requires, then copy the application and any related files into the image.

**Using multiple containers**
Imagine you are developing a web-based platform that allows users to browse products, add items to their cart, pay for items, and ship items to different addresses. This application requires multiple components to execute properly because it relies on a number of microservices. The idea behind microservices is to take a large application and break it up into smaller, more tangible, independent parts of the application that are self-contained. This allows for each part of the application to be better maintained. Because these microservices are independent of each other, you use multiple containers to test the entirety of the application to ensure everything runs smoothly. It’s no surprise that in the programming world, programmers and developers work with multiple containers at a time.


**Docker and GCP**
Docker and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) are two types of technologies that complement each other, allowing programmers to build, deploy, and manage containerized applications in the cloud.


**Google Cloud Platform**
GCP is a composition of all the cloud services provided by Google. These include:
- Virtual machines
- Containers
- Computing
- Hosting
- Storage
- Databases
- Tools
- Identity management

GCP is widely used by businesses, startup companies, developers, and organizations of all sizes across a variety of industries to help their users go digital.


Build artifact testing
---
No matter what code you write, you’ll need to test it. You want to create a product that is free of errors and bugs. Testing build artifacts and troubleshooting within your tests are great ways to ensure the quality of your work.

**Build artifacts** 
Build artifacts are items that you create during the build process. Your main artifact is your Docker container, if you’re working within a Dockerized application. All other items that you generate during the Docker image build process are also considered build artifacts. Some examples include:
- Libraries
- Documentation
- Static files
- Configuration files
- Scripts


**Build artifacts in Docker**
Build artifacts in Docker play a crucial role in the software development and deployment lifecycle. No matter what you create with code, you need to test it. You must test your code before deployment to ensure that you catch and correct all issues, defects, and errors. This is true whether your code is built as a Docker container or built the more “classic” way. The process to execute the testing varies based on the application and the programming language it’s written in.

**Pro tip:** It’s important to check that Docker built the container itself correctly if you are testing your code with a containerized application.

There are several types of software testing that you can execute with Docker containers:

- Unit tests: These are small, granular tests written by the developer to test individual functions in the code. In Docker, unit tests are run directly on your codebase before the Docker image is built, ensuring the code is working as expected before being packaged.

- Integration tests: These refer to testing an application or microservice in conjunction with the other services on which it relies. In a Dockerized environment, integration tests are run after the docker image is built and the container is running, testing how different components operate together inside the Docker container. 

- End-to-end (E2E) tests: This type of testing simulates the behavior of a real user (e.g., by opening the browser and navigating through several pages). E2E tests are run against the fully deployed docker container, checking that the entire application stack with its various components and services functions correctly as a whole.

- Performance tests: This type of testing identifies bottlenecks. Performance tests are run against the fully deployed Docker container and test various stresses and loads to ensure the application performs at expectations. 

Docker makes it easy to set up and tear down tests in a repeatable and predictable way. Testing Docker containers ensures the reliability, stability, and quality of the application running within them. By testing containers, you can discover bugs and compatibility and performance issues to ensure your application functions as intended.

**How to test a Docker container** 
Automated testing often requires supplying configuration files, data files, and test tools to the application you want to test, which unfortunately increases the size of your container. Instead, you can build a container just for testing, using your output artifact as a base image. 

***

<h2>Practice Quiz</h2>

***
1. You have created your first application and would like to test it before showing it to stakeholders. A colleague suggests using Docker to execute this task. What is Docker an example of? 
*Ans => A container technology*

2. You have been talking to a colleague about how beneficial Docker has been to you for packaging and running applications in containers over the past several weeks. Your colleague has finally decided to install Docker on their local machine and reaches out to you for help with the installation process. Which method can your colleague execute to get Docker up and running on their machine? 
*Ans => Installing Docker from the Docker website based on their operating system*

3. A colleague is discussing the combination of application code, data files, configuration, and libraries that are needed to run an application. What Docker term are they referring to? 
Ans => An image

4. A new programmer with your company has run into the issue of how to test multiple independent components together, which components must work properly in order for the application to run smoothly. What advice would you give the programmer to make their development process more efficient? 
Ans => Use multiple containers to test the different microservices of the application.

5. You share a new idea for an application with your team to get their feedback and any advice to make the application better. Some members of your team provide feedback on the build artifacts. Which of the following are examples of build artifacts? Select all that apply.
Ans =>
Libraries,
Documentation,
Scripts
