***
#	OBJECTIVES

***

-	Understand and explain the different types of storage available
-	Explain the difference between round robin DNS and sticky sessions
-	List the different types of integration testing that are available
-	Understand and explain the concept of SLAs
-	Troubleshoot and debug a system without being physically present
-	Understand what a rollback is and how they can help in a system failure
-	Understand how primary and secondary instances can help in a disaster recovery situation

***

##	What's DevOps
DevOps is a way of working that combines software development, Dev, and IT operations, Ops, to shorten the system's development lifecycle and provide continuous delivery with high software quality. DevOps allows us to collaboratively create software that's robust, deliver it at high velocity, and support it in an integrated way. 

Software development is an involved process that includes a variety of people with different responsibilities and skills. That process is called the software development lifecycle. DevOps is short for development and operations. It describes the steps of the software development lifecycle that go beyond writing the code.

##	Continuous integration, delivery, and deployment
Continuous integration, delivery, and deployment, or CI/CD, refers to the automation of an entire pipeline of tools that build, test, package, and deploy an application whenever a developer commits a code change to the source control repository. 

**Continuous integration (CI)** automatically builds, tests, and integrates code changes within a shared repository. Then, **continuous delivery (CD)** automatically delivers code changes to production-ready environments for approval, and **continuous deployment (CD)** automatically deploys those code changes directly to production. 

###	Continuous integration
**CI** is a key best practice in DevOps. As the first stage of the automation process in the development lifecycle, developers integrate their code changes early and often to a shared source code repository. This shared repository is the solution to having too many separate iterations of a software or app in development at the same time. It can also: 
-	Reduce the risk of having multiple pieces—which may be created independently—conflicting with each other 

-	Save time throughout the development lifecycle by allowing you to identify and address any issues or conflicts as they arise rather than at the end of a phase

-	Reduce the amount of time spent on fixing bugs and regression


###	Continuous delivery and deployment
An important note: Continuous delivery and continuous deployment are related concepts that are sometimes used interchangeably. While they’re both about automating later stages of a DevOps pipeline, you can use either to show what is happening during automation. For example, continuous delivery means that any changes a developer makes to an application are automatically released to a repository like GitHub and then deployed by the operations team. This ensures that minimal effort is required to deploy new code. It also includes test and code release automation at every stage, beginning with code changes and ending with the delivery of production-ready builds.

Continuous deployment is an extension of continuous delivery and refers to the automatic deployment of an app or any developer changes from the repository to production. This helps to prevent overloading the operations teams and automates the next stage in the pipeline. However, continuous deployment relies heavily on the success of test automation, so it’s important that your testing is written to accommodate the various testing and release stages in the DevOps lifecycle. 

###	Pipelines
Pipelines are automated processes and sets of tools that developers use during the software development lifecycle. In a pipeline, the steps of a process are carried out in sequential order. This way, if any step fails, the pipeline stops without deploying the changes

Pipelines are the sets of tools and automated processes that development and operations teams use to build, test, and (optionally) deploy software. The automation of the CI/CD pipeline can reduce the amount of manual work and coordination required to deploy software, save time and effort for your development and operations teams, and allow you and your organization to release any updates more efficiently. In order for your CI/CD pipelines to be successful, make sure you have included high-quality tests for automation, integration, and deployment. Finally, pipelines allow your organization to have multiple teams working independently, accelerate software development and deployment cycles, enhance the quality and stability of your software releases, and create a faster, more efficient review and resolution process, which also reduces the number of errors.

***

## DevOps tools
Recall DevOps is a combination of development and operations and represents the process of breaking down silos between the development teams writing code and the operations teams that deploy and maintain it. Historically, these teams often communicated only when it was time to deploy a release or when there was a problem in production that could be traced back to a bug in the code. By breaking down those silos, as well as leveraging technologies like automated builds and testing, organizations can spend less time on manual processes. This enables them to deliver software much more quickly and frequently—which can translate to a competitive advantage in the marketplace. 

So, what are DevOps tools? They’re any software tools that help to make automated processes possible. DevOps tools are designed to address many of the pain points common to software development organizations everywhere. 
There are many different types of DevOps tools including: 
-	Source code repositories, such as GitHub or Bitbucket
-	CI/CD tools, such as Github Actions, Jenkins, and Google Cloud Deploy
-	Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tools, such as Terraform or Ansible
-	Container management tools, such as Docker or Kubernetes
-	Security scanning tools, such as Snyk or SonarQube
-	Production monitoring tools, such as DataDog or AppDynamics

But how do you know which tools to use? Let’s think about the DevOps lifecycle. This will help you determine which tools are the best fit at each stage. 

###	Discover
During discovery, look for tools that encourage brainstorming to happen asynchronously. This allows everyone on your team to share and comment on anything and will be important throughout the DevOps lifecycle. Examples of tools you can use include Jira Product Discovery, Miro, and Mural.

###	Plan 
When you get to the planning stage, look for tools that provide options for sprint planning and issue tracking, as well as continued collaboration. Examples of tools you can use include Jira Software, Confluence, and Slack.

###	Build
During the building stage, look for tools that allow you to create individual development environments, reprovision those development environments, monitor versions with version control, continuously integrate and test, and have source control of your code. Also look for tools that allow for continuous integration, delivery, and feedback. Examples of tools you can use include Kubernetes and Docker.

###	Test 
Automation is essential for DevOps, so look for tools that can automate testing and support wallboards, sharing, and commenting on particular builds or deployments. Examples of tools you can use include Veracode and SmartBear Zephyr Squad or Zephyr Scale.

###	Monitor
Look for tools that can integrate with your group chat clients and send you notifications or alerts when you’ve automated monitoring your servers and application performance. An example tool you can use is Jira Software. 

###	Operate
Deployment and operation will have similar needs. For deployment, look for tools that can integrate your code repository and deployment tools in a single dashboard. Once your software has deployed, look for tools that can track incidents, changes, problems, and software projects on a single platform. It’s easier to find, identify, and resolve issues when they’re all in the same place. An example tool you can use is Jira Software. 

###	Continuous feedback
It’s important to continuously receive feedback on your builds and gain insights from that feedback. Look for applications that can integrate your chat clients with a survey platform or social media platform. Examples of tools you can use include Slack and GetFeedback. 

###	Popular tools for CI/CD
Jenkins, GitLab, Travis CI, and CircleCI are all tools which can automate the different stages of the software development lifecycle, including building, testing, and deploying. They are often used in DevOps to continuously build and test software, which allows you to continuously integrate your changes into your build. 

Tools like Spinnaker, Argo CD, and Harness can be used to automate continuous delivery and deployment and to simplify your DevOps processes. 
***

###	Containers in the CI/CD pipeline
Continuous integration and continuous delivery/deployment (CI/CD) is the automation of an entire pipeline of tools that build, test, package, and deploy an application whenever developers commit a code change to the source control repository. Feedback can be provided to developers at any given stage of the process. A pipeline is an automated process and set of tools that developers use during the software development lifecycle. In a pipeline, the steps of a process are carried out in sequential order. The reason behind this is that if any step fails, the pipeline can stop without deploying the changes. The pipeline stops executing the steps and marks the job as failed. The following image is what this looks like in Github Actions.

Using containers in the CI/CD pipeline can bring developers additional flexibility, consistency, and benefits to building, testing, packaging, and deploying an application. Because containers are lightweight, they allow for a faster deployment of the application. Containers help eliminate the common “works on my machine” syndrome. 

Docker images contain the application code, data files, configuration files, libraries, and other dependencies needed to run an application. Typically, these consist of multiple layers in order to keep the images as small as possible. Container images allow developers to run tests, conduct quality performance checks, and ensure each code change is tested and works as expected before being deployed.

Kubernetes is a tool for organizing, sharing, and managing containers. This powerful tool gives programmers and developers the ability to scale, duplicate, push updates, roll back updates and versions, and operate under version control.

Another advantage of using containers in a CI/CD pipeline is that developers are able to deploy multiple versions of an application at the same time without interfering with one another. It can reduce the number of errors from configuration issues and allow delivery teams to quickly move these containers between different environments, like from build to staging and staging to production. And lastly, using containers in a CI/CD pipeline supports automated scaling, load balancing, and high availability of applications creating robust deployments.
***

###	Continuous testing
Continuous testing means running automated test suites every time a change is committed to the source code repository. In practice, this usually means running the tests as part of a CI/CD pipeline, in between the build and deploy stages. Continuous testing is an important part of the CI/CD process. It ensures that all of your code changes are tested early in the development process, preventing them from becoming larger, more difficult, time-intensive, and/or more expensive to fix later on.

There are three types of testing that you’ll typically see in the CI/CD pipeline. These include:
-	Unit testing
-	Integration testing
-	System testing 

**Unit testing** test an individual unit within your code. A unit can be a function, module, or set of processes. Unit testing checks that everything is working as expected. 

**Integration testing** is part of both continuous delivery and continuous deployment. It allows you to automatically test each change to your code when you commit or merge them to your source code repository. The testing  checks for errors and security issues as they arise, again preventing you from having to deal with larger, more difficult, and/or expensive issues later in the process. 

**System testing** does exactly what it sounds like: It simulates active users and runs on the entire system to test for performance. When testing the entire system, testing for performance can include testing how your program, software, or application handles high loads or stress, changes in the configuration; and system  security. You can also utilize end-to-end testing, which tests the functionality and performance of your entire application from start to finish by simulating a real user scenario.

###	Testing frameworks and tools
There are many testing frameworks and tools you can use for automated testing, such as 
JUnit, Selenium, Cypress, and Postman. 

-	**JUnit** is an open-source unit testing framework for the Java programming language and can help you with your unit testing. With JUnit, you can write and execute automated tests and develop reliable, bug-free code. There are similar libraries for other languages such as PyUnit for Python and NUnit for C#.

-	**Selenium** is an open-source, automated testing suite of tools for web application developers. Each tool can be used for different testing needs.

-	__Cypress__ is a JavaScript-based testing tool that can automate end-to-end tests. It simulates how users would interact with your web applications. Often used for front-end development of web-based applications, these kinds of tests will help to ensure that your tests and the users’ experiences are the same. 

-	**Postman** can be used to automate unit tests, function tests, integration tests, end-to-end tests, regression tests, and more in your CI/CD pipeline.  

***
##	Practice quiz: CI/CD pipeplines
***
1. Which types of tests are automated and run by a CI/CD pipeline? 
*Ans => Unit, integration, and system*

2. Why is automated testing important? Select all that apply. 
*Ans =>
It reduces the amount of manual work and the risk of human error;
It ensures that all of your code changes are tested early in the development process.*

3. Which actions typically trigger a CI/CD pipeline to start? Select all that apply.
*Ans =>
A change in code;
A scheduled or user-initiated workflow;
Another pipeline.*

4. What are some advantages of implementing DevOps? 
*Ans =>
Continuous, iterative improvement of your applications;
An automated software development lifecycle;
Collaborative environments;
**All of the above.***

5. Which of the following are benefits of using containers in your CI/CD pipeline? Select all that apply.
*Ans =>
It allows you to deploy applications easily to multiple operating systems and hardware platforms;
It allows you to deploy multiple versions of an application at the same time without interfering with one another; 
It creates a more reliable way to work with applications at any stage in the pipeline process.*

***