#	Continuous Integration best practices
Continuous integration (CI) is a software development practice in which code changes occur automatically, frequently, and safely to integrate into a shared repository. With each integration, an automated build is triggered and tested to determine and resolve integration issues early.

###	Principles and benefits
Key principles of CI include:
-	Integration
-	Builds
-	Tests
-	Feedback
-	Version control

CI allows for frequent integration, as developers commit their changes to a shared repository daily. It also ensures the changes are tested and issues are resolved. CI relies on automation to build the application code and execute tests to manage integrated changes and to ensure consistent results. Because CI is able to detect integration issues early, this allows for CI to provide quick feedback to developers, alerting them of issues and providing time to allow them to correct any problems. Lastly, running the CI tests on every pull request will highlight which changes caused the tests to fail, guaranteeing a reliable history of the codebase for developers.

Let’s look at an example of where you’d see this in the real world: Imagine that a team working on a modern microservice-based application has been suffering and exhausted due to subtle errors showing up in production that should have been caught earlier. The team makes the decision to invest time and resources into building a strong set of integration tests.

After the unit tests run successfully, the team prepares the CI server to deploy all the microservices into a Kubernetes cluster and run the automated integrated test suite. Each microservice developer writes tests to check the interactions between their service and the other services it depends on. If any of those tests fail, the pull request is not merged and the code is not deployed to production.

###	Core practices
CI is a way to develop software to make it easier, faster, and more reliable. CI is composed of three core practices, which include:
-	Automated building
-	Automated testing
-	Version control system integration

Automated builds involve utilizing tools and scripts to automatically compile the source code into executable binaries or artifacts. Automated testing involves running different types of tests automatically to verify the stability of code changes made by developers, providing fast feedback to developers on any issues. Version control system integration allows a way to manage and track code changes efficiently and effectively.


###	Integration testing
Continuous integration is when developers integrate code into a shared repository frequently. Benefits of continuous integration include revision control, build automation, and automated testing which allows you to detect errors quickly and locate them more easily. Integration tests are tests you conduct to make sure different parts of the application work together, like modules or services, as opposed to individual units of code. They’re one type of test that is typically run during the CI pipeline. The purpose of integration testing is to make sure that any recent changes you or your team has made haven’t broken other parts of the system and to verify that everything is working together as expected. A few benefits of CI testing include repeatability of your testing, continuous integration and testing, the ability to run builds or tests in parallel with other team members, and rapid feedback. 

There are different types of CI tests that you can perform in the CI pipeline:
-	Code quality tests are used to check the quality and complexity of your code(s) and identify if there are any code defects. 
-	Unit tests which are used to test an individual unit within your code, like a function, module, or set of processes. Unit testing checks that everything is working as expected.
-	Integration tests are used to verify that the different modules or parts of your application are working together.
-	Security or license tests are used to make sure that your software or application is free from threats, vulnerabilities, and risks. This allows developers to identify if and where there are security risks so they can be fixed earlier rather than later. 

***
##	Practice quiz: Continuous integration
***
1. What is the role of a webhook in GitHub?
Ans => *It enables GitHub to notify CI tools about code changes.*

2. Which of the following are the core components of Cloud Build? Select all that apply.
*Ans =>
Build triggers;
Build Configurations;
Build steps.*

3. What is the purpose of utilizing version control in continuous integration with your code? 
*Ans => It is a way to manage code changes and to track the code’s history.*

4. Why should you run integration tests? Select all that apply. 
*Ans =>
To catch errors earlier in the CI pipeline;
To make sure your application components work together as expected.*

5. You have developed new code for an application you are creating for a client. You are using the Cloud Build service supported by Google Cloud Platform, or GCP. Which step in the build steps process refers to moving the application to an environment when it is ready for production? 
Ans => Deploying