***
#	Continuos Delivery
The “CD” in CI/CD can stand for continuous delivery and continuous deployment. They’re related concepts that are sometimes used interchangeably. They’re both about automating later stages of a DevOps pipeline, but you can use either to show what is happening during automation. Continuous delivery means that any changes a developer makes to an application are automatically released to a repository like GitHub and then deployed by the operations team. Continuous deployment is an extension of continuous delivery and refers to the automatic deployment of an app or any developer changes from the repository to production, which helps to prevent overloading the operations teams and automates the next stage in the pipeline. 

###	Value Stream Mapping
Value stream mapping, or VSM, is a technique used to analyze, design, and manage the flow of materials and information required to bring a product to a customer. It’s important because it can improve the efficiency of your software delivery process, reduce the time needed to deliver updates to your customers, and give you a competitive advantage over other businesses.

###	Github and delivery
GitHub can facilitate your efforts in Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD). Learning about how to utilize this repository will benefit you down the road.

#### How GitHub supports CI/CD
GitHub supports external CI/CD tools by providing webhooks and APIs that allow those tools to become part of the pull request process. For example, GitHub can be set up to refuse to merge a pull request until several actions are completed:
-	The PR is reviewed and signed off by one or more code reviewers.
-	The CI build process completes successfully.
-	The CI test suites run successfully.
-	The PR submitter has acknowledged the project’s license, standards, and/or code of conduct.

The feature of GitHub that automates CI/CD is called GitHub Actions.

#### GitHub Actions
GitHub Actions is a feature of GitHub that allows you to run tasks whenever certain events occur in your code repository. With GitHub Actions, you are able to trigger any part of a CI/CD pipeline off any webhook on GitHub.

GitHub Actions supports your CI/CD. It offers workflows that you can use right away or customize for your own repository. 
***
##	Configuration Management
Configuration management is an automated process that ensures your new software project and its assets perform as they should as you update and change your code.

#### Consistency and stability
Configuration management helps you manage your code and all of its components. In addition, it ensures that each component of your code is automatically and properly built, monitored, and updated as needed. It’s common to have multiple copies of an application running at the same time to guarantee a highly available, properly functioning system.

If configuration management is not used, a developer will have to manually update and correct any issues or errors on each individual server. Something as simple as a typo could create misconfigured servers, causing errors and unexpected behaviors. The developer would have to correct each typo on each server. This process would be frustrating and unsustainable. That’s where configuration management plays a role in maintaining consistency and stability in software systems. It enables you to duplicate server instances, resulting in consistent behavior across all servers.

#### Configuration files
Configuration files are commonly referred to as a manifest or playbook—depending on the DevOps tool you use. You can think of these as statements on how you want the system to look and perform. Let’s take a look at an example. A playbook might say, “I need a server with 32GB of RAM running Debian Linux, with Python 3.9 and Nginx installed.” Notice that this playbook statement does not specify the steps to achieve the desired state—it only describes what the desired state should look like. To use configuration files, create a configuration file as the input to your configuration management tool describing the desired state. The configuration management tool works to determine a solution to have the server look and perform as you described in your manifest or playbook.

In summary, configuration management provides developers a solution to simplify and effectively manage changes and updates to codes. It streamlines the process of correcting any issues or errors found on multiple copies of the same application. It operates off of configuration files—manifests or playbooks—to understand what the desired state of the system should be and determine a solution to achieve the desired state.

***
##	Practice quiz: Continuous delivery
***

1. Why would you use value stream mapping? Select all that apply.
*Ans => 
To reduce the number of steps in your process;
To increase the efficiency of your process;
To identify current areas of improvement.*

2. What does GitHub Actions do? Select all that apply.
*Ans =>
Allows developers to run tasks whenever certain events occur in their code repository;
Offers ready-to-use CI/CD workflows.*

3. What is another name for a configuration file? Select all that apply.
*Ans =>
Playbook;
Manifest.*

4.Which of the following is a form of software development waste that you can identify with value stream mapping, or VSM?
*Ans => Handoff waste*

5. Which of the following statements is considered a best practice for CD?
*Ans => Automate as much as you can*

***